# Writing a Pipeline to Rotate the Foundation Certificate Authority

This how-to-guide shows you how to write a pipeline for rotating the
certificate authority on an existing Ops Manager.

## Prerequisites
1. A pipeline, such as one created in [Installing Ops Manager][install-how-to] 
   or [Upgrading an Existing Ops Manager][upgrade-how-to].
1. A fully configured Ops Manager and Director.
1. The Platform Automation Toolkit Docker Image [imported and ready to run][running-commands-locally].

## Creating the Pipeline
We will be creating a new pipeline for this workflow. It will ultimately rotate the certificate authority for a single foundation via a series of jobs, but it will start with some resources. Create a file titled `ca-rotation.yml` with this content:
```yaml
---
resource_types:
- name: pivnet
  type: docker-image
  source:
    repository: pivotalcf/pivnet-resource
    tag: latest-final
resources:
- name: platform-automation
  type: pivnet
  source:
    product_slug: platform-automation
    api_token: ((pivnet-refresh-token))
```

We will also set this new pipeline.
```bash
fly -t control-plane set-pipeline -p foundation -c ca-rotation.yml
```

## Generating a Root Certificate Authority
There are two methods to configure a new root certificate authority in Ops
Manager:

1. Use Ops Manager to generate a new certificate authority.
1. Give Ops Manager an existing root certificate authority to use.

Regardless of method, we are going to add our first job to the pipeline.
```yaml
jobs:
- name: configure-new-ca
  plan:
  - get: platform-automation-image
    resource: platform-automation
    params:
      globs: ["*image*.tgz"]
      unpack: true
  - get: platform-automation-tasks
    resource: platform-automation
    params:
      globs: ["*tasks*.zip"]
      unpack: true
  - task: configure-new-ca
    image: platform-automation-image
    file: platform-automation-tasks/tasks/configure-new-certificate-authority.yml
```

### Generate a New Certificate Authority
If we want a certificate authority generated by Ops Manager, the above job will create it for us.

### Configure Ops Manager to Use an Existing Certificate Authority
If we want to provide a certificate authority to the Ops Manager to use (e.g. an externally signed certificate), we can provide that to the Ops Manager with an input resource and additional configuration of the task.

We'll add an [S3 resource][s3-resource]
to the `resources` section:
```yaml hl_lines="2-8"
resources:
- name: certificate-authority
  type: s3
  source:
    access_key_id: ((s3-access-key-id))
    secret_access_key: ((s3-secret-key))
    bucket: ((certificate-authority-bucket))
    regexp: (certificate|privatekey)\.pem
```
Also, we will fetch the resource before the task. This will configure the task to use the `certificate.pem` and `privatekey.pem` files from the s3 resource as the new CA in Ops Manager.
```yaml
  - get: certs
    resource: certificate-authority
  - task: configure-new-ca
    image: platform-automation-image
    file: platform-automation-tasks/tasks/configure-new-certificate-authority.yml
```

### Apply Changes
After configuring a new certificate authority, Ops Manager needs to apply changes before the new CA is available to generate and sign certificates. This also registers the CA with components so that they will trust certificates from the new CA.

## Activate the New Certificate Authority
We need to set our new certificate authority as the active certificate authority. After this, any certificates created by the Credhub will be signed by the new CA.
```bash
om -e env.yml activate-certificate-authority --id <new-ca-guid>
```

## Regenerate Certificates

### Non-configurable Leaf Certificates
Now that a new certificate authority is active, any internal, non-configurable certificates need to be regenerated and signed by the new CA. The Ops Manager API has a function to delete all non-configurable certificates and generate new ones using the current, active CA:
```bash
om -e env.yml regenerate-certificates
```
This will delete the existing certificates from Credhub, which causes Credhub to generate new certificates on the next run of Apply Changes.

### Configurable Certificates
Any manually configured certificates that are signed by the foudation root certificate authority need to be regenerated as well. Tanzu Application Service needs at least two configurable certificates, one for networking components and one for UAA.
After generating a new certificate, it needs to be configured in Ops Manager with a manifest file specific to the certificate. For the UAA SAML service provider credentials, here is an example manifest titled `uaa_update_template.yml`:
```yml
product-name: cf
product-properties:
  .uaa.service_provider_key_credentials:
    value:
      cert_pem: ((certificate))
      private_key_pem: ((key))
```
<!-- ```yml
product-name: cf
product-properties:
  .properties.networking_poe_ssl_certs[0].certificate:
    value:
      cert_pem: ((certificate))
      private_key_pem: ((key))
``` -->

```bash
om --env env.yml generate-certificate --domains "apps.foundation.example.com" > new-cert.json
om interpolate --config key_update_template.yml --vars-file new-cert.json > key_manifest.yml
om --env env.yml configure-product -c key_manifest.yml
```

We can fetch the list of configurable certificates from the Ops Manager API:
```bash
om -e env.yml curl -p /api/v0/deployed/certificates | jq '.certificates[] | select(.configurable==true)'
```

### Apply Changes
Finally, we need to apply changes one last time in order to create and use the new certificates.

## Cleaning Up
Once the function of the foundation is validated with new certificates, the old certificate authority can be deleted.
```bash
om -e env.yml delete-certificate-authority --all-inactive
```

{% with path="../" %}
    {% include ".internal_link_url.md" %}
{% endwith %}
{% include ".external_link_url.md" %}
